.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 8, 2001
.Dt _LWP_INFO 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm _lwp_info
.Nd return the time-accounting information of a single LWP
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/time.h
.In sys/lwp.h
.Ft int
.Fn _lwp_info "struct lwpinfo *buffer"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn _lwp_info
function fills the
.Vt lwpinfo
structure pointed to by
.Fa buffer
with time-accounting information pertaining to the calling LWP.
This call may be extended in the future to return other information to the
.Vt lwpinfo
structure as needed.
The
.Vt lwpinfo
structure in
.In sys/lwp.h
includes the following members:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
timestruc_t	lwp_utime;
timestruc_t	lwp_stime;
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Va lwp_utime
member is the CPU time used while executing instructions in
the user space of the calling LWP.
The
.Va lwp_stime
member is the CPU time used by the system on behalf of the
calling LWP.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned;
otherwise an error value is returned.
.Pp
The
.Fn _lwp_info
function will fail with:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa buffer
argument points to an illegal address.
.El
.Pp
Additionally,
.Fn lwp_info
will fail for 32-bit interfaces with:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EOVERFLOW
The size of the
.Va tv_sec
member of the
.Vt timestruc_t
type pointed to by
.Va lwp_utime
and
.Va lwp_stime
is too small to contain the correct number of seconds.
.El
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr times 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5
