.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 8, 2001
.Dt _LWP_KILL 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm _lwp_kill
.Nd send a signal to a LWP
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/lwp.h
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn _lwp_kill "lwpid_t target_lwp" "int sig"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn _lwp_kill
function sends a signal to the LWP specified by
.Fa target_lwp .
The signal that is to be sent is specified by
.Fa sig
and must be one from the list given in
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD .
If
.Fa sig
is 0 (the null signal), error checking is performed but no signal is actually
sent.
This can be used to check the validity of
.Fa target_lwp .
.Pp
The
.Fa target_lwp
must be an LWP within the same process as the calling LWP.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned;
otherwise an error value is returned.
.Pp
The
.Fn _lwp_kill
function will fail if
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa sig
argument is not a valid signal number.
.It Bq Er ESRCH
The
.Fa target_lwp
argument cannot be found in the current process.
.El
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 5
