.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 8, 1995
.Dt _LWP_COND_SIGNAL 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm _lwp_cond_signal , _lwp_cond_broadcast
.Nd signal a condition variable
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/lwp.h
.Ft int
.Fn _lwp_cond_signal "lwp_cond_t *cvp"
.Ft int
.Fn _lwp_cond_broadcast "lwp_cond_t *cvp"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn _lwp_cond_signal
function unblocks one LWP that is blocked on the LWP condition variable pointed
to by
.Fa cvp .
The
.Fn _lwp_cond_broadcast
function unblocks all LWPs that are blocked on
the LWP condition variable pointed to by
.Fa cvp .
.Pp
If no LWPs are blocked on the LWP condition variable, then
.Fn _lwp_cond_signal
and
.Fn _lwp_cond_broadcast
have no effect.
.Pp
Both functions should be called under the protection of the same LWP mutex lock
that is used with the LWP condition variable being signaled.
Otherwise, the condition variable may be signalled between the test of the
associated condition and blocking in
.Fn lwp_cond_wait .
This can cause an infinite wait.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned;
otherwise an error value is returned.
.Pp
The
.Fn _lwp_cond_signal
and
.Fn _lwp_cond_broadcast
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa cvp
argument points to an invalid LWP condition variable.
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa cvp
argument points to an invalid address.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr _lwp_cond_wait 2 ,
.Xr _lwp_mutex_lock 2
