.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt CHDIR 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm chdir, fchdir
.Nd change working directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn chdir "const char *path"
.Ft int
.Fn fchdir "int fildes"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn chdir
and
.Fn fchdir
functions cause a directory pointed to by
.Fa path
or
.Fa fildes
to become the current working directory.
The starting point for path searches for path names not beginning with
.Pa / Pq slash .
The
.Fa path
argument points to the path name of a directory.
The
.Fa fildes
argument is an open file descriptor of a directory.
.Pp
For a directory to become the current directory, a process must have execute
(search) access to the directory.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned;
otherwise, the value -1 is returned,
the current working directory is unchanged and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn chdir
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
Search permission is denied for any component of the path name.
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa path
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.Fn chdir
function.
.It Bq Er EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.It Bq Er ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.Fa path .
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.Fa path
argument exceeds
.Dv PATH_MAX ,
or the length of
a
.Fa path
component exceeds
.Dv NAME_MAX
while
.Dv _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
Either a component of the path prefix or the directory named by
.Fa path
does not exist or is a null pathname.
.It Bq Er ENOLINK
The
.Fa path
argument points to a remote machine and the link to that machine
is no longer active.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
A component of the path name is not a directory.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn fchdir
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
Search permission is denied for
.Fa fildes .
.It Bq Er EBADF
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not an open file descriptor.
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.Fn fchdir
function.
.It Bq Er EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.It Bq Er ENOLINK
The
.Fa fildes
argument points to a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
The open file descriptor
.Fa fildes
does not refer to a directory.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chroot 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
