.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 25, 2002
.Dt CREAT 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm creat
.Nd create a new file or rewrite an existing one
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/stat.h
.In fcntl.h
.Ft int
.Fn creat "const char *path" "mode_t mode"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function call
.Pp
.Dl Fn creat path mode
.Pp
is equivalent to:
.Pp
.Dl Fn open path "O_WRONLY | O_CREAT | O_TRUNC" mode
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Refer to
.Xr open 2 .
.Sh ERRORS
Refer to
.Xr open 2 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example creates the file
.Pa /tmp/file
with read and write permissions for the file owner and read permission for
group and others.
The resulting file descriptor is assigned to the
.Va fd
variable.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <fcntl.h>
\&...
int fd;
mode_t mode = S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR | S_IRGRP | S_IROTH;
char *filename = "/tmp/file";
\&...
fd = creat(filename, mode);
\&...
.Ed
.Sh USAGE
The
.Fn creat
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file offsets.
See
.Xr lf64 5 .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr largefile 5 ,
.Xr lf64 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
