.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 27, 2009
.Dt GETPID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm getpid, getpgrp, getppid, getpgid
.Nd get process, process group, and parent process IDs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getpid void
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getpgrp void
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getppid "void"
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getpgid "pid_t pid"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn getpid
function returns the process ID of the calling process.
.Pp
The
.Fn getpgrp
function returns the process group ID of the calling process.
.Pp
The
.Fn getppid
function returns the parent process ID of the calling
process.
.Pp
The
.Fn getpgid
function returns the process group ID of the process whose process ID is equal
to
.Fa pid ,
or the process group ID of the calling process, if
.Fa pid
is equal to 0.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn getpid ,
.Fn getpgrp
and
.Fn getppid
functions are always successful and no return value is reserved to indicate an
error.
.Pp
Upon successful completion,
.Fn getpgid
returns the process group ID;
otherwise the value -1 is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn getpgid
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
The process whose process ID is equal to
.Fa pid
is not in the same session as the calling process, and the implementation does
not allow access to the process group ID of that process from the calling
process.
.It Bq Er ESRCH
There is no process with a process ID equal to
.Fa pid .
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn getpgid
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The value of the
.Fa pid
argument is invalid.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh STANDARDS
See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exec 2 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr getsid 2 ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr setpgrp 2 ,
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
