.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 22, 1996
.Dt GETSID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm getsid
.Nd get process group ID of session leader
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getsid "pid_t pid"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn getsid
function obtains the process group ID of the process that is the session leader
of the process specified by
.Fa pid .
If
.Fa pid
is
.Po Vt pid_t Pc Ns 0 ,
it specifies the calling process.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn getsid
returns the process group ID of the session leader of the specified process;
otherwise, it returns
.Po Vt pid_t Pc Ns -1
and sets the global variable
.Va errno
to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn getsid
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
The process specified by
.Fa pid
is not in the same session as the calling process, and the implementation does
not allow access to the process group ID of the session leader of that process
from the calling process.
.It Bq Er ESRCH
There is no process with a process ID equal to
.Fa pid .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exec 2 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr getpgid 2 ,
.Xr getpid 2 ,
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
