.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt GETUID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm getuid , geteuid , getgid , getegid
.Nd get real user, effective user, real group, and effective group IDs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft uid_t
.Fn getuid void
.Ft uid_t
.Fn geteuid void
.Ft uid_t
.Fn getgid void
.Ft uid_t
.Fn getegid void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn getuid
function returns the real user ID of the calling process.
The real user ID identifies the person who is logged in.
.Pp
The
.Fn geteuid
function returns the effective user ID of the calling process.
The effective user ID gives the process various permissions during execution of
"set-user-ID" mode processes which use
.Fn getuid
to determine the real user ID of the process that invoked them.
.Pp
The
.Fn getgid
function returns the real group ID of the calling process.
.Pp
The
.Fn getegid
function returns the effective group ID of the calling process.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr setuid 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
