.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd June 18, 2020
.Dt IOCTL 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ioctl
.Nd control device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.In stropts.h
.Ft int
.Fn ioctl "int fildes" "int request" "/* arg */ ..."
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ioctl
function performs a variety of control functions on devices and streams.
For non-streams files, the functions performed by this call are device-specific
control functions.
The
.Fa request
argument and an optional third argument with varying type are passed to the
device file designated by
.Fa fildes
and are interpreted by the device driver.
.Pp
For streams files, specific functions are performed by the
.Fn ioctl
function as described in streamio(7I).
.Pp
The
.Fa fildes
argument is an open file descriptor that refers to a device.
The
.Fa request
argument selects the control function to be performed and
depends on the device being addressed.
The
.Fa arg
argument represents a third argument that has additional information that is
needed by this specific device to perform the requested function.
The data type of
.Fa arg
depends upon the particular control request, but it is either an
.Vt int
or a pointer to a device-specific data structure.
.Pp
In addition to device-specific and streams functions, generic functions are
provided by more than one device driver (for example, the general terminal
interface or disk interfaces).
See
.Xr termio 7I , Xr dkio 7I ,
etc.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends upon the device control
function, but must be a non-negative integer; otherwise the value -1 is returned
and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn ioctl
function will fail for any type of file if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.Fn ioctl
function.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The stream or multiplexer referenced by
.Fa fildes
is linked (directly or indirectly) downstream from a multiplexer.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn ioctl
function will also fail if the device driver detects an
error.
In this case, the error is passed through
.Fn ioctl
without change to the caller.
A particular driver might not have all of the following error cases.
Under the following conditions, requests to device drivers may fail and set
.Va errno
to indicate the error:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa request
argument requires a data transfer to or from a buffer pointed
to by
.Fa arg ,
but
.Fa arg
points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa request
or
.Fa arg
argument is not valid for this device.
Many devices return
.Er ENOTTY
for an unknown
.Fa request .
.It Bq Er EIO
Some physical I/O error has occurred.
.It Bq Er ENOLINK
The
.Fa fildes
argument is on a remote machine and the link to that machine
is no longer active.
.It Bq Er ENOTTY
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not associated with a device that accepts
control functions.
.Pp
The device driver does not know the
.Fa request
command.
.It Bq Er ENXIO
The
.Fa request
and
.Fa arg
arguments are valid for this device driver, but the service requested can not be
performed on this particular subdevice.
.Pp
The device driver does not support the
.Fn ioctl
function.
.It Bq Er ENODEV
The
.Fa fildes
argument refers to a valid streams device, but the corresponding device driver
does not support the
.Fn ioctl
function.
.El
.Pp
Streams errors are described in streamio(7I).
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5 ,
.Xr streamio 7I ,
.Xr termio 7I
