.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 12, 1990
.Dt MINCORE 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mincore
.Nd determine residency of memory pages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.Ft int
.Fn mincore "caddr_t addr" "size_t len" "char *vec"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mincore
function determines the residency of the memory pages in
the address space covered by mappings in the range
.Bq Fa addr , addr No + len .
The status is returned as a character-per-page in the character array
referenced by
.Fa *vec ,
which the system assumes to be large enough to encompass all the pages in the
address range.
The least significant bit of each character is set to 1 to indicate that the
referenced page is in primary memory, and to 0 to indicate that it is not.
The settings of other bits in each character are undefined and may contain
other information in future implementations.
.Pp
Because the status of a page can change between the time
.Fn mincore
checks and returns the information, returned information might be outdated.
Only locked pages are guaranteed to remain in memory; see
.Xr mlock 3C .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn mincore
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa vec
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa addr
argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
.Xr sysconf 3C ,
or the
.Fa len
argument has a value less than or equal to 0.
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
Addresses in the range
.Bq Fa addr , addr No + Fa len
are invalid for the address space of a process or specify one or more pages
which are not mapped.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr mlock 3C ,
.Xr sysconf 3C
