.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 12, 1998
.Dt MPROTECT 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mprotect
.Nd set protection of memory mapping
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mman.h
.Ft int
.Fn mprotect "void *addr" "size_t len" "int prot"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mprotect
function changes the access protections on the mappings specified by the range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
rounding
.Fa len
up to the next multiple of the page size as returned by
.Xr sysconf 3C ,
to be that specified by
.Fa prot .
Legitimate values for
.Fa prot
are the same as those permitted for
.Xr mmap 2
and are defined in
.In sys/mman.h
as:
.Bl -tag -width "PROT_WRITE"
.It Dv PROT_READ
Page can be read.
.It Dv PROT_WRITE
Page can be written.
.It Dv PROT_EXEC
Page can be executed.
.It Dv PROT_NONE
Page cannot be accessed.
.El
.Pp
When
.Fn mprotect
fails for reasons other than
.Er EINVAL ,
the protections on some of the pages in the range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
may have been changed.
If the error occurs on some page at
.Va addr2 ,
then the protections of all whole pages in the range
.Bq Fa addr , Va addr2
will have been modified.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn mprotect
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
The
.Fa prot
argument specifies a protection that violates the access
permission the process has to the underlying memory object.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa len
argument has a value equal to 0, or
.Fa addr
is not a multiple
of the page size as returned by
.Xr sysconf 3C .
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
Addresses in the range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
are invalid for the address space of a process,
or specify one or more pages which are not mapped.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn mprotect
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
The address range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
includes one or more pages that have
been locked in memory and that were mapped
.Dv MAP_PRIVATE ; Fa prot
includes
.Dv PROT_WRITE ;
and the system has
insufficient resources to reserve memory for the private pages that may be
created.
These private pages may be created by store operations in the now-writable
address range.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr mlock 3C ,
.Xr mlockall 3C ,
.Xr plock 3C ,
.Xr sysconf 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
