.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 22, 2004
.Dt MSGCTL 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm msgctl
.Nd message control operations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/msg.h
.Ft int
.Fn msgctl "int msqid" "int cmd" "struct msqid_ds *buf"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn msgctl
function provides a variety of message control operations as specified by
.Fa cmd .
The following
.Fa cmd Ns s
are available:
.Bl -tag -width "IPC_RMID"
.It Dv IPC_STAT
Place the current value of each member of the data structure associated with
.Fa msqid
into the structure pointed to by
.Fa buf .
The contents of this structure are defined in
.Xr Intro 2 .
.It Dv IPC_SET
Set the value of the following members of the data structure associated with
.Fa msqid
to the corresponding value found in the structure pointed to by
.Fa buf :
.Bd -literal -offset -indent
msg_perm.uid
msg_perm.gid
msg_perm.mode /* access permission bits only */
msg_qbytes
.Ed
.Pp
This command can be executed only by a process that has either the
.Brq Dv PRIV_IPC_OWNER
privilege or an effective user ID equal to the value of
.Va msg_perm.cuid
or
.Va msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.Fa msqid .
Only a process with the
.Brq Dv PRIV_SYS_IPC_CONFIG
privilege can raise the value of
.Va msg_qbytes .
.It Dv IPC_RMID
Remove the message queue identifier specified by msqid from the system
and destroy the message queue and data structure associated with it.
This
.Fa cmd
can only be executed by a process that has an effective user ID either with
appropriate privileges asserted in the effective set or equal to the value of
.Va msg_perm.cuid
or
.Va msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.Fa msqid .
The
.Fa buf
argument is ignored.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn msgctl
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
The
.Fa cmd
argument is
.Dv IPC_STAT
and operation permission is denied to the calling process
.Pq see Xr Intro 2 .
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa buf
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa msqid
argument is not a valid message queue identifier; or the
.Fa cmd
argument is not a valid command or is
.Dv IPC_SET
and
.Va msg_perm.uid
or
.Va msg_perm.gid
is not valid.
.It Bq Er EOVERFLOW
The
.Fa cmd
argument is
.Dv IPC_STAT
and
.Va uid
or
.Va gid
is too large to be stored in the structure pointed to by
.Fa buf .
.It Bq Er EPERM
The
.Fa cmd
argument is
.Dv IPC_RMID
or
.Dv IPC_SET ,
the
.Brq Dv PRIV_SYS_IPC_OWNER
privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process,
and is not equal to the value of
.Va msg_perm.cuid
or
.Va msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.Fa msqid .
.Pp
The cmd argument is
.Dv IPC_SET ,
an attempt is being made to increase to the value of
.Va msg_qbytes ,
and the
.Brq Dv PRIV_SYS_IPC_CONFIG
privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr msgget 2 ,
.Xr msgrcv 2 ,
.Xr msgsnd 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr privileges 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
