.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1994, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 14, 2006
.Dt MSGGET 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm msgget
.Nd get message queue
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/msg.h
.Ft int
.Fn msgget "key_t key" "int msgflg"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn msgget
argument returns the message queue identifier associated
with
.Fa key .
.Pp
A message queue identifier and associated message queue and data structure (see
Intro(2)) are created for
.Fa key
if one of the following are true:
.Bl -dash -width Ds
.It
.Fa key
is
.Dv IPC_PRIVATE .
.It
.Fa key
does not already have a message queue identifier associated with it, and
.Ql Pq msgflg & IPC_CREAT
is true.
.El
.Pp
On creation, the data structure associated with the new message queue
identifier is initialized as follows:
.Bl -dash -width Ds
.It
.Va msg_perm.cuid , msg_perm.uid, msg_perm.cgid
and
.Va msg_perm.gid
are set to the effective user ID and effective group ID, respectively, of the
calling process.
.It
The low-order 9 bits of
.Va msg_perm.mode
are set to the low-order 9 bits of
.Fa msgflg .
.It
.Va msg_qnum , msg_lspid , msg_lrpid , msg_stime
and
.Va msg_rtime
are set to 0.
.It
.Va msg_ctime
is set to the current time.
.It
.Va msg_qbytes
is set to the system limit.
See
.Sx NOTES .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer representing a message queue
identifier is returned; otherwise the value -1 is returned and the global
variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn msgget
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
A message queue identifier exists for
.Fa key ,
but operation permission
.Pq see Xr Intro 2
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.Fa msgflg
would not be granted.
.It Bq Er EEXIST
A message queue identifier exists for
.Fa key
but
.Ql Pq msgflg\ &\ IPC_CREAT
and
.Ql Pq msgflg\ &\ IPC_EXCL
are both true.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
A message queue identifier does not exist for
.Fa key
and
.Ql Pq msgflg\ &\ IPC_CREAT
is false.
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
A message queue identifier is to be created but the system-imposed limit on the
maximum number of allowed message queue identifiers system wide would be
exceeded.
See
.Sx NOTES .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rctladm 1M ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr msgctl 2 ,
.Xr msgrcv 2 ,
.Xr msgsnd 2 ,
.Xr setrctl 2 ,
.Xr ftok 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh NOTES
The system-defined limit used to initialize
.Va msg_qbytes
is the minimum
enforced value of the calling process'
.Va process.max-msg-qbytes
resource control.
.Pp
The system-imposed limit on the number of message queue identifiers is
maintained on a per-project basis using the
.Va project.max-msg-ids
resource control.
The
.Va zone.max-msg-ids
resource control restricts the total amount of message queue identifiers that
can be allocated by a zone.
.Pp
See
.Xr rctladm 1M
and
.Xr setrctl 2
for information about using resource controls.
