.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 5, 1998
.Dt MUNMAP 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm munmap
.Nd nmap pages of memory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mman.h
.Ft int
.Fn munmap "void *addr" "size_t len"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn munmap
function removes the mappings for pages in the range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
rounding the
.Fa len
argument up to the next multiple of the page size as returned by
.Xr sysconf 3C .
If
.Fa addr
is not the address of a mapping established by a prior call to
.Xr mmap 2 ,
the behavior is undefined.
After a successful call to
.Fn munmap
and before any subsequent mapping of the unmapped pages,
further references to these pages will result in the delivery of a
.Dv SIGBUS
or
.Dv SIGSEGV
signal to the process.
.Pp
The
.Xr mmap 2
function often performs an implicit
.Fn munmap .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn munmap
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa addr
argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
.Xr sysconf 3C ;
addresses in the range
.Eo [
.Fa addr , addr
+
.Fa len
.Ec ) ,
are outside the valid range for the address space of a process;
or the
.Fa len
argument has a value less than or equal to 0.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr sysconf 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
