.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt PAUSE 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pause
.Nd suspend process until signal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn pause void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pause
function suspends the calling process until it receives a signal.
The signal must be one that is not currently set to be ignored by the calling
process.
.Pp
If the signal causes termination of the calling process,
.Fn pause
does not return.
.Pp
If the signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned from the
signal-catching function
.Pq see Xr signal 3C ,
the calling process resumes execution from the point of suspension.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Since
.Fn pause
suspends thread  execution indefinitely unless interrupted by a signal, there
is no successful completion return value.
If interrupted, it returns -1 and sets
.Va errno
to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pause
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned from the
signal-catching function.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr alarm 2 ,
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr wait 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
