.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2013, OmniTI Computer Consulting, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd April 19, 2013
.Dt PIPE 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pipe , pipe2
.Nd create an interprocess channel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn pipe "int fildes[2]"
.Ft int
.Fn pipe2 "int fildes[2]" "int flags"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pipe
and
.Fn pipe2
functions create an I/O mechanism called a
pipe and returns two file descriptors,
.Fa fildes[0]
and
.Fa fildes[1] .
The files associated with
.Fa fildes[0]
and
.Fa fildes[1]
are streams and are both opened for reading and
writing.
The
.Fn pipe
call will clear the
.Dv O_NDELAY , O_NONBLOCK
and
.Dv FD_CLOEXEC
flags on both file descriptors.
The
.Xr fcntl 2
function can be used to set these flags.
.Pp
The
.Fn pipe2
call will clear the
.Dv O_NDELAY
on both file descriptors.
The
.Fa flags
argument may be used to specify attributes on both file
descriptors.
.Fn pipe2
called with a
.Fa flags
value of 0 will behave identically to
.Fn pipe .
Values for
.Fa flags
are constructed
by a bitwise-inclusive-OR of flags from the following list, defined in
.In fcntl.h :
.Bl -tag -width "O_NONBLOCK"
.It Dv O_NONBLOCK
Both file descriptors will be placed in non-blocking mode.
This corresponds to the
.Dv O_NONBLOCK
flag to
.Xr fcntl 2 .
.It Dv O_CLOEXEC
Both file descriptors will be opened with the
.Dv FD_CLOEXEC
flag set.
Both file descriptors will be closed prior to any future
.Xr exec 2
calls.
.El
.Pp
A read from
.Fa fildes[0]
accesses the data written to
.Fa fildes[1]
on a first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis and a read from
.Fa fildes[1]
accesses the data written to
.Fa fildes[0]
also on a FIFO basis.
.Pp
Upon successful completion
.Fn pipe
marks for update the
.Va st_atime , st_ctime
and
.Va st_mtime
fields of the pipe.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pipe
and
.Fn pipe2
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EMFILE
More than
.Brq Dv OPEN_MAX
file descriptors are already in use by this process.
.It Bq Er ENFILE
The number of simultaneously open files in the system would exceed a
system-imposed limit.
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa fildes[2]
argument points to an illegal address.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn pipe2
function will also fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa flags
argument is illegal.
Valid
.Fa flags
are zero or a bitwise inclusive-OR of
.Dv O_CLOEXEC
and
.Dv O_NONBLOCK .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr exec 2 ,
.Xr fcntl 2 ,
.Xr fstat 2 ,
.Xr getmsg 2 ,
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr putmsg 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5 ,
.Xr streamio 7I
.Sh NOTES
Since a pipe is bi-directional, there are two separate flows of data.
Therefore, the size
.Pq Vt st_size
returned by a call to
.Xr fstat 2
with
argument
.Fa fildes[0]
or
.Fa fildes[1]
is the number of bytes
available for reading from
.Fa fildes[0]
or
.Fa fildes[1]
respectively.
Previously, the size
.Pq Va st_size
returned by a call to
.Fn fstat
with argument
.Fa fildes[1] Pq the write-end
was the number of bytes available for reading from
.Fa fildes[0] Pq the read-end .
