.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 14, 2006
.Dt SEMGET 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm semget
.Nd get set of semaphores
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/ipc.h
.In sys/sem.h
.Ft int
.Fn semget "key_t key" "int nsems" "int semflg"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn semget
function returns the semaphore identifier associated with
key.
.Pp
A semaphore identifier and associated data structure and set containing
nsems semaphores
.Pq see Xr Intro 2
are created for
.Fa key
if one of the following is true:
.Bl -dash -width Ds
.It
.Fa key
is equal to
.Dv IPC_PRIVATE .
.It
.Fa key
does not already have a semaphore identifier associated with it, and
.Ql Pq semflg & IPC_CREAT
is true.
.El
.Pp
On creation, the data structure associated with the new semaphore identifier is
initialized as follows:
.Bl -dash -width Ds
.It
.Va sem_perm.cuid , sem_perm.uid , sem_perm.cgid
and
.Va sem_perm.gid
are set equal to the effective user ID and effective group ID, respectively, of
the calling process.
.It
The access permission bits of
.Va sem_perm.mode
are set equal to the access
permission bits of
.Fa semflg .
.It
.Va sem_nsems
is set equal to the value of
.Fa nsems .
.It
.Va sem_otime
is set equal to 0 and
.Va sem_ctime
is set equal to the current time.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer representing a semaphore
identifier is returned; otherwise the value -1 is returned and the global
variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn semget
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
A semaphore identifier exists for
.Fa key ,
but operation permission
.Pq see Xr Intro 2
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.Fa semflg
would not be granted.
.It Bq Er EEXIST
A semaphore identifier exists for key but both
.Ql Pq semflg & IPC_CREAT
and
.Ql Pq semflg & IPC_EXCL
are both true.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa nsems
argument is either less than or equal to 0 or greater than the
system-imposed limit.
See
.Sx NOTES .
.Pp
A semaphore identifier exists for
.Fa key ,
but the number of semaphores in the set associated with it is less than
.Fa nsems
and
.Fa nsems
is not equal to 0.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
A semaphore identifier does not exist for
.Fa key
and
.Ql Pq semflg & IPC_CREAT
is false.
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
A semaphore identifier is to be created but the system-imposed limit on the
maximum number of allowed semaphores or semaphore identifiers system-wide would
be exceeded.
See
.Sx NOTES .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ipcrm 1 ,
.Xr ipcs 1 ,
.Xr rctladm 1M ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr semctl 2 ,
.Xr semop 2 ,
.Xr setrctl 2 ,
.Xr ftok 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh NOTES
The system-imposed limit on the value of the
.Fa nsems
argument is maintained on a per-process basis using the
.Va process.max-sem-nsems
resource control.
.Pp
The system-imposed limit on the number of semaphore identifiers is maintained
on a per-project basis using the
.Va project.max-sem-ids
resource control.
The
.Va zone.max-sem-ids
resource control limis the total number of semaphore identifiers that can be
allocated by a zone.
.Pp
See
.Xr rctladm 1M
and
.Xr setrctl 2
for information about using resource controls.
