.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd January 5, 2000
.Dt SETPGRP 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm setpgrp
.Nd set process group ID
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fn setpgrp void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
If the calling process is not already a session leader, the
.Fn setpgrp
function makes it one by setting its process group ID and session to the value
of its process ID, and releases its controlling terminal.
See
.Xr Intro 2
for more information on process group
.Sy ID Ns s
and session leaders.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn setpgrp
function returns the value of the new process group
.Sy ID .
.Sh ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr setpgrp 1 ,
.Xr exec 2 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr getpid 2 ,
.Xr getsid 2 ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
