.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 21, 2002
.Dt SETSID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm setsid
.Nd create session and set process group ID
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fn setsid "void"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn setsid
function creates a new session, if the calling process is not a process group
leader.
Upon return the calling process will be the session leader of this new session,
will be the process group leader of a new process group, and will have no
controlling terminal.
The process group ID of the calling process will be set equal to the process ID
of the calling process.
The calling process will be the only process in the new process group and the
only process in the new session.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn setsid
function returns the value of the process
group ID of the calling process if successful;
otherwise the value
.Po Vt pid_t Pc Ns -1
is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn setsid
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
The calling process is already a process group leader, or the process group ID
of a process other than the calling process matches the process ID of the
calling process.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getsid 2 ,
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr setpgrp 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh WARNINGS
A call to
.Fn setsid
by a process that is a process group leader will fail.
A process can become a process group leader by being the last member of a
pipeline started by a job control shell.
Thus, a process that expects to be part of a pipeline, and that calls
.Fn setsid ,
should always first fork; the parent should exit and the child should call
.Fn setsid .
This will ensure that the calling process will work reliably when started by
both job control shells and non-job control shells.
