.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd April 10, 2007
.Dt SETTASKID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm settaskid , gettaskid , getprojid
.Nd set or get task or project IDs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/task.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft taskid_t
.Fn settaskid "projid_t project" "int flags"
.Ft taskid_t
.Fn gettaskid "void"
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/task.h
.In unistd.h
.In project.h
.Ft projid_t
.Fn getprojid "void"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn settaskid
function makes a request of the system to assign a new task
.Sy ID
to the calling process, changing the associated project
.Sy ID
to that specified.
The calling process must have sufficient privileges to perform this operation.
The
.Fa flags
argument should be either
.Dv TASK_NORMAL
for a regular task, or
.Dv TASK_FINAL ,
which disallows subsequent
.Fn settaskid
calls by the created task.
.Pp
The
.Fn gettaskid
function returns the task
.Sy ID
of the calling process.
.Pp
The
.Fn getprojid
function returns the project
.Sy ID
of the calling process.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, these functions return the appropriate task or
project
.Sy ID ;
otherwise -1 is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn settaskid
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
The invoking task was created with the
.Dv TASK_FINAL
flag.
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
A resource control limiting the number of tasks or LWPs in the current project
or zone has been exceeded.
.Pp
A resource control on the given project would be exceeded.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The given project
.Sy ID
is not within the valid project
.Sy ID
range.
.It Bq Er EPERM
The
.Brq Dv PRIV_PROC_TASKID
privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process.
.El
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr project 4 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr privileges 5
