.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt SIGPENDING 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigpending
.Nd examine signals that are blocked and pending
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigpending "sigset_t *set"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sigpending
function retrieves those signals that have been sent to the calling process but
are being blocked from delivery by the calling process's signal mask.
The signals are stored in the space pointed to by the
.Fa set
argument.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn sigpending
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa set
argument points to an illegal address.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr sigsetops 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
