.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd June 24, 2001
.Dt SIGSUSPEND 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigsuspend
.Nd install a signal mask and suspend caller until signal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigsuspend "const sigset_t *set"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sigsuspend
function replaces the caller's signal mask with the set of signals pointed to
by the
.Fa set
argument and suspends the caller until delivery of a signal whose action is
either to execute a signal catching function or to terminate the process.
If the
.Fa set
argument points to an invalid address, the behavior is undefined and
.Va errno
may be set to
.Er EFAULT .
.Pp
If the action is to terminate the process,
.Fn sigsuspend
does not return.
If the action is to execute a signal catching function,
.Fn sigsuspend
returns after the signal catching function returns.
On return, the signal mask is restored to the set that existed
before the call to
.Fn sigsuspend .
.Pp
It is not possible to block signals that cannot be ignored
.Pq see Xr signal.h 3HEAD .
This restriction is silently imposed by the system.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Since
.Fn sigsuspend
suspends the caller's execution indefinitely,
there is no successful completion return value.
On failure, -1 is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn sigsuspend
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa set
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal was caught by the caller and control was returned from the signal
catching function.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr sigwait 2 ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr sigsetops 3C ,
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 5
.Sh NOTES
If the caller specifies more than one unblocked signal in the mask to
.Fn sigsuspend ,
more than one signal might be processed before the call to
.Fn sigsuspend
returns.
.Pp
While the caller is executing the signal handler that interrupted its call to
.Fn sigsuspend ,
its signal mask is the one passed to
.Fn sigsuspend ,
modified as usual by the signal mask specification in the signal's
.Xr sigaction 2
parameters.
The caller's signal mask is not restored to its previous value until the caller
returns from all the signal handlers that interrupted
.Fn sigsuspend .
