.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd July 5, 1990
.Dt SYNC 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sync
.Nd update super block
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft void
.Fn sync void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sync
function writes all information in memory that should be on disk, including
modified super blocks, modified inodes, and delayed block I/O.
.Pp
Unlike
.Xr fsync 3C ,
which completes the writing before it returns,
.Fn sync
schedules but does not necessarily complete the writing before returning.
.Sh USAGE
The
.Fn sync
function should be used by applications that examine a file system, such as
.Xr fsck 1M ,
and
.Xr df 1M ,
and is mandatory before rebooting.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr df 1M ,
.Xr fsck 1M ,
.Xr fsync 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
