.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd July 5, 1990
.Dt SYSFS 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sysfs
.Nd get file system type information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/fstyp.h
.In sys/fsid.h
.Ft int
.Fn sysfs "int opcode" "const char *fsname"
.Ft int
.Fn sysfs "int opcode" "int fs_index" "char *buf"
.Ft int
.Fn sysfs "int opcode"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sysfs
function returns information about the file system types configured in the
system.
The number of arguments accepted by
.Fn sysfs
depends on the
.Fa opcode
argument, which can take the following values:
.Bl -tag -width "GETNFSTYP"
.It Dv GETFSIND
Translate
.Fa fsname ,
a null-terminated file-system type identifier, into a file-system type index.
.It Dv GETFSTYP
Translate
.Fa fs_index ,
a file-system type index, into a null-terminated
file-system type identifier and write it into the buffer pointed to by
.Fa buf ,
which must be at least of size
.Dv FSTYPSZ
as defined in
.In sys/fstyp.h .
.It Dv GETNFSTYP
Return the total number of file system types configured in the system.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends upon the
.Fa opcode
argument as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "GETNFSTYP"
.It Dv GETFSIND
The file-system type index.
.It Dv GETFSTYP
0
.It Dv GETNFSTYP
The number of file system types configured.
.El
.Pp
Otherwise, -1 is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn sysfs
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Dv EFAULT
The
.Fa buf
or
.Fa fsname
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Dv EINVAL
The
.Fa fsname
argument points to an invalid file-system identifier; the
.Fa fs_index
argument is 0 or invalid; or the
.Fa opcode
argument is invalid.
.El
