.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt TIME 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm time
.Nd get time
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In time.h
.Ft time_t
.Fn time "time_t *tloc"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn time
function returns the value of time in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1,
1970.
.Pp
If
.Fa tloc
is non-zero, the return value is also stored in the location to
which
.Fa tloc
points.
If
.Fa tloc
points to an illegal address,
.Fn time
fails and its actions are undefined.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned; otherwise the value
.Po Vt time_t Pc Ns -1
is returned and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stime 2 ,
.Xr ctime 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
