.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd February 1, 2003
.Dt ULIMIT 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ulimit
.Nd get and set process limits
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ulimit.h
.Ft long
.Fo ulimit
.Fa "int cmd" ,
.No "/* newlimit */" Fa ...
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ulimit
function provides for control over process limits.
It is effective in limiting the growth of regular files.
Pipes are limited to
.Dv PIPE_MAX
bytes.
.Pp
The
.Fa cmd
values, defined in
.In ulimit.h ,
include:
.Bl -tag -width "UL_GETFSIZE"
.It Dv UL_GETFSIZE
Return the soft file size limit of the process.
The limit is in units of 512-byte blocks and is inherited by child processes.
Files of any size can be read.
The return value is the integer part of the soft file size limit divided by
512.
If the result cannot be represented as a
.Vt "long int" ,
the result is unspecified.
.It Dv UL_SETFSIZE
Set the hard and soft file size limits for output operations of the process to
the value of the second argument, taken as a
.Vt long int .
Any process may decrease its own hard limit, but only a process with
appropriate privileges may increase the limit.
The new file size limit is returned.
The hard and soft file size limits are set to the specified value multiplied by
512.
If the result would overflow an
.Vt rlimit_t ,
the actual value set is unspecified.
.It Dv UL_GMEMLIM
Get the maximum possible break value
.Pq see Xr brk 2 .
.It Dv UL_GDESLIM
Get the current value of the maximum number of open files per process
configured in the system.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ulimit
function returns the value of the requested limit; otherwise the value -1 is
returned, the limit is not changed and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn ulimit
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The cmd argument is not valid.
.It Bq Er EPERM
A process that has not asserted
.Brq Dv PRIV_SYS_RESOURCE
in its effective set is trying to increase its file size limit.
.El
.Sh USAGE
Since all return values are permissible in a successful situation, an
application wishing to check for error situations should set
.Va errno
to 0,
then call
.Fn ulimit ,
and if it returns -1, check if
.Va errno
is non-zero.
.Pp
The
.Fn getrlimit
and
.Fn setrlimit
functions provide a more general
interface for controlling process limits, and are preferred over
.Fn ulimit .
See
.Xr getrlimit 2
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr brk 2 ,
.Xr getrlimit 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr privileges 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
