.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd December 28, 1996
.Dt UMASK 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm umask
.Nd set and get file creation mask
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/stat.h
.Ft mode_t
.Fn umask "mode_t cmask"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn umask
function sets the process's file mode creation mask to
.Fa cmask
and returns the previous value of the mask.
Only the access
permission bits of
.Fa cmask
and the file mode creation mask are used.
The mask is inherited by child processes.
See
.Xr Intro 2
for more information on masks.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The previous value of the file mode creation mask is returned.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkdir 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr chmod 2 ,
.Xr creat 2 ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr stat.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
