.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd September 21, 2021
.Dt UNAME 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uname
.Nd get name of current operating system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/utsname.h
.Ft int
.Fn uname "struct utsname *name"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn uname
function obtains information about the current operating system
and stores it into the structure pointed to by
.Fa name .
The
.Vt utsname
structure is defined in
.In sys/utsname.h
and consists of null-terminated character strings:
.Bd -literal
struct utsname {
	char	sysname[SYS_NMLN];
	char	nodename[SYS_NMLN];
	char	release[SYS_NMLN];
	char	version[SYS_NMLN];
	char	machine[SYS_NMLN];
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Va sysname
contains the name of the current operating system,
.Va nodename
contains the name by which the system is known on a communications network,
.Va release
and
.Va version
further identify the operating system, and
.Va machine
contains a standard name that identifies the hardware on which the operating
system is running.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a non-negative value is returned;
otherwise the value -1 is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn uname
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa name
argument points to an illegal address.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr uname 1 ,
.Xr sysinfo 2 ,
.Xr sysconf 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
