.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd September 1, 2009
.Dt UTIME 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm utime
.Nd set file access and modification times
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In utime.h
.Ft int
.Fn utime "const char *path" "const struct utimbuf *times"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn utime
function sets the access and modification times of the file
pointed to by
.Fa path ,
and causes the time of the last file status change
.Pq Va st_ctime
to be updated.
.Pp
If
.Fa times is
.Dv NULL ,
the access and modification times of the file are
set to the current time.
A process must be the owner of the file or have write
permission to use
.Fn utime
in this manner.
.Pp
If
.Fa times
is not
.Dv NULL ,
.Fa times
is interpreted as a pointer to a
.Vt utimbuf
structure
.Pq defined in In utime.h
and the access and modification times are set to the values contained in the
designated structure.
Only the owner of the file or a process that has the
.Brq Dv PRIV_FILE_OWNER
privilege asserted in its effective set can use
.Fn utime
in this manner.
.Pp
The
.Vt utimbuf
structure contains the following members:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
time_t   actime;    /* access time */
time_t   modtime;   /* modification time */
.Ed
.Pp
The times contained in the members of the
.Vt utimbuf
structure are measured in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn utime
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
Search permission is denied by a component of the
.Fa path
prefix.
.It Bq Er EACCES
The process does not have appropriate privileges and is not the owner of the
file, write permission is denied for the file, and
.Fa times
is
.Dv NULL .
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa path
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINTR
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.Fn utime
function.
.It Bq Er EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.It Bq Er ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.Fa path .
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.Fa path
argument exceeds
.Dv PATH_MAX ,
or the length of a
.Fa path
component exceeds
.Dv NAME_MAX
while
.Dv _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is a null pathname.
.It Bq Er ENOLINK
The
.Fa path
argument points to a remote machine and the link to that machine is no longer
active.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
A component of the
.Fa path
prefix is not a directory.
.It Bq Er EPERM
The effective user of the calling process is not the owner of the file,
.Brq Dv PRIV_FILE_OWNER
is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process, and
.Fa times
is not
.Dv NULL .
.It Bq Er EROFS
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr futimens 2 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr utimes 2 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr privileges 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
