.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd September 12, 2006
.Dt UUCOPY 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uucopy
.Nd no-fault memory-to-memory copy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In strings.h
.Ft int
.Fo uucopy
.Fa "const void *s1"
.Fa "void *s2"
.Fa "size_t n"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn uucopy
function copies
.Fa n
bytes from memory area
.Fa s1
to
.Fa s2 .
Copying between objects that overlap could corrupt one or both buffers.
.Pp
Unlike
.Xr bcopy 3C , Fn uucopy
does not cause a segmentation fault if either the source or destination buffer
includes an illegal address.
Instead, it returns -1 and sets
.Va errno
to
.Er EFAULT .
This error could occur after the operation has partially completed, so the
contents of the buffer at
.Fa s2
are defined if the operation fails.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn uucopy
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
Either the
.Fa s1
or
.Fa s2
arguments points to an illegal address.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Evolving
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bcopy 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5
