.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd June 8, 2018
.Dt WAITID 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm waitid
.Nd wait for child process to change state
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In wait.h
.Ft int
.Fo waitid
.Fa "idtype_t idtype"
.Fa "id_t id"
.Fa "siginfo_t *infop"
.Fa "int options"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn waitid
function suspends the calling process until one of its child
processes changes state.
It records the current state of a child in the
structure pointed to by
.Fa infop .
It returns immediately if a child process
changed state prior to the call.
.Pp
The
.Fa idtype
and
.Fa id
arguments specify which children
.Fn waitid
is to wait for, as follows:
.Bl -dash -width Ds
.It
If
.Fa idtype
is
.Dv P_PID , Fn waitid
waits for the child with a process ID equal to
.Po Vt pid_t Pc Ns Fa id .
.It
If
.Fa idtype
is
.Dv P_PGID, waitid
waits for any child with a process group ID equal to
.Po Vt pid_t Pc Ns Fa id .
.It
If
.Fa idtype
is
.Dv P_ALL , Fn waitid
waits for any child and
.Fa id
is ignored.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fa options
argument is used to specify which state changes
.Fn waitid
is to wait for.
It is formed by bitwise OR operation of any of the following flags:
.Bl -tag -width "WCONTINUED"
.It Dv WCONTINUED
Return the status for any child that was stopped and has been continued.
.It Dv WEXITED
Wait for process(es) to exit.
.It Dv WNOHANG
Return immediately.
.It Dv WNOWAIT
Keep the process in a waitable state.
.It Dv WSTOPPED
Wait for and return the process status of any child that has  stopped upon
receipt of a signal.
.It Dv WTRAPPED
Wait for traced process(es) to become trapped or reach a breakpoint
.Pq see Xr ptrace 3C .
.El
.Pp
The
.Fa infop
argument must point to a
.Vt siginfo_t
structure, as defined in
.Xr siginfo.h 3HEAD .
If
.Fn waitid
returns because a child process was found that satisfies the conditions
indicated by the arguments
.Fa idtype
and
.Fa options ,
then the structure pointed to by
.Fa infop
will be filled by the system with the status of the process.
The
.Va si_signo
member will always be equal to
.Dv SIGCHLD .
.Pp
One instance of a
.Dv SIGCHLD
signal is queued for each child process whose status has changed.
If
.Fn waitid
returns because the status of a child
process is available and
.Dv WNOWAIT
was not specified in
.Fa options ,
any pending
.Fa SIGCHLD
signal associated with the process ID of that child process is discarded.
Any other pending
.Dv SIGCHLD
signals remain pending.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If
.Fn waitid
returns due to a change of state of one of its children and
.Dv WNOHANG
was not used, 0 is returned; otherwise the value -1 is returned and the global
variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
If
.Dv WNOHANG
was used, 0 can be returned (indicating no error); however, no children may
have changed state if
.Va infop->si_pid
is 0.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn waitid
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ECHILD
The set of processes specified by
.Fa idtype
and
.Fa id
does not contain any unwaited processes.
.It Bq Er EFAULT
The
.Fa infop
argument points to an illegal address.
.It Bq Er EINTR
The
.Fn waitid
function was interrupted due to the receipt of a signal by the calling process.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
An invalid value was specified for
.Fa options ,
or
.Fa idtype
and
.Fa id
specify an invalid set of processes.
.El
.Sh USAGE
With
.Fa options
equal to
.Dv WEXITED | WTRAPPED , Fn waitid
is equivalent to
.Xr waitpid 3C .
With
.Fa idtype
equal to
.Dv P_ALL
and
.Fa options
equal to
.Dv WEXITED | WTRAPPED , Fn waitid
is equivalent to
.Xr wait 3C .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exec 2 ,
.Xr exit 2 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr pause 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr ptrace 3C ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr wait 3C ,
.Xr waitpid 3C ,
.Xr siginfo.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
